.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH SF 1 "October 28, 2000"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
sf \- utility to watch/alter a program's syscall/signal experience
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sf
.RI [ options ] " command command-arg" ...
.\"[-todnhV] [--waitchannelhack] [--slowmainloop] command [options for command]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.B sf
utility runs
.I command
under the control of one or more SUBTERFUGUE tricks.  These tricks can
observe and alter the behavior of 
.IR command ,
(and all of the subprocesses and threads it starts) using the
.BR ptrace (2)
system call.  For example, the
.I NetFail
trick will cause network connection attempts to fail with "host unreachable"
errors.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-trick\fR=\fITRICK\fR[:\fIOPTIONS\fR]
use trick with given options, multiple tricks may be given and apply
successively, left-to-right
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
direct \fBsf\fR output to a file, or a file descriptor (if FILE is a number)
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-failnice\fR
allow the command to continue if \fBsf\fR should abort (otherwise \fBsf\fR
will try to \fBSIGKILL\fR all of the command's processes as it dies)
.TP
\fB\-\-nowaitchannelhack\fR
skip the wait channel hack (faster, but only works on patched kernels)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
show debug output
.TP
\fB\-\-slowmainloop\fR
disable the optimized main loop, for debugging purposes
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display help (including help for specified tricks) and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
output version information and exit
.SH TRICKS
A trick is a small python module that is interposed between \fIcommand\fR's
processes and the kernel.  It can catch system calls invoked by these
processes and signals sent to them, and observe, cancel, or rewrite them.  In
this way, tricks can exert quite a bit of control over the "reality" these
processes experience.
.PP
The set of tricks that come with SUBTERFUGUE is growing rapidly.  (You can
easily add more yourself; see the web site for more details.)
.PP
The OPTIONS part of a trick argument, if given, is a tiny chunk of python code
which assigns values to the specified options.  So, for example,
"--trick=Spam:n=1;foo='bar'" would assign option \fIn\fR the numeric value
\fI1\fR and option \fIfoo\fR the string value '\fIbar\fR'.
.PP
Here are descriptions of a few of the more stable and interesting tricks
currently available:
.TP
.B Trace
traces system calls, signals, and process exits, like
.BR strace (1),
.BR gdb (1).
.TP
.B SimplePathSandbox
controls which files a command can read from and write to.
.TP
.B NetFail
causes network connection attempts to fail with a "host unreachable" error
(and listen attempts to fail with "operation not supported").
.TP
.B NetThrottle
limits the amount of network bandwidth an application uses; it has a Gtk
interface so that the limit can be adjusted interactively.
.PP
Use the \fB\-\-help\fR flag or check the web site to get more information
about the usage and limitations of each trick.
.\" wait until this is tested a little more...  --mkc
.\"  .SH "ScratchTrick"
.\"  Provides a safe copy area for arguments.
.\"
.\"  This trick should be as innermost (rightmost) as possible.
.\"
.\"  Notice that without this trick, and appropriate tricks to
.\"  actually copy arguments (ArgTrick), traced applications may play nasty
.\"  games with volatile memory, resulting in TraceTrick lying,
.\"  SimplePathSandbox not being effective, etc. However,
.\"  application would have to deliberately play races and in case of
.\"  application being nasty of purpose you have to be very cautious.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Since tricks are
.BR python (1)
modules, PYTHONPATH can be used to add new trick directories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR strace (1).
.PP
More complete documentation is available at '\fBhttp://subterfugue.org\fR'.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Mike Coleman, with contributions by Pavel Machek.
.SH BUGS
Yes, there are bugs.  SUBTERFUGUE is still fairly experimental.  See the web
site and the TODO file.
.PP
\fBDon't run sf as root, or with programs where a loss of state would be
disastrous (e.g., fetchmail), unless you really know what you're doing.\fR
.PP
Report bugs to <subterfugue-dev@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.SH UNRESTRICTIONS
SUBTERFUGUE, including the \fBsf\fR program, is free software, distributed
under the terms of the GNU GPL; see the source for copying conditions.  There
is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
